
1. What's this document about?
   ---------------------------

This document contains useful information about SNOWBALLS, NeL, Nevrax,
technical requirements, and caveats about compilation and installation.
It also includes a short "user manual" for the programs provided. It is
highly recommended reading.


2. What are NeL and Nevrax
   -----------------------

NeL is a free software framework developped by Nevrax Ltd, for the purpose of 
building internet multiuser entertainment.

Nevrax is a company dedicated to Free Software, which is why their tools are 
covered by the GPL. See the attached license file. They built NeL to create 
their massively multiplayer online role playing game called The Saga of Ryzom.

You should visit our website at http://www.opennel.org/ for more information.


3. What's in the package?
   ----------------------

The package contains:

   - The latest source code for the NeL client and server frameworks
   - The source code and data for a sample NeL game called 'SNOWBALLS'

If you have a source distribution, you need to compile the source to
produce the various executables. If you have a binary distribution,
you have a pre-built exe client for Snowballs, but no source.

The source code is provided as is, and reflects the state of the NeL
framework at the release date. We have done our best to insure that the
snapshot you are using now compiles and works correctly. However, we
only test on a limited range of configurations, and the vagaries of
OS and hardware means we cannot guarantee it compiles and executes
correctly on your system at the time.

If you are using SVN, you can keep in synch with the NeL Development Team 
as we have included the required SVN information. An update will give you 
current source. We do not guarantee that the source in SVN will compile 
and work correctly at all time as it includes the latest work in progress.


4. Caveat
   ------

The sample client, server and data files provided do not accurately reflect
our game currently in production. We do intend penguins and gnus to appear
in the final game, but most of the gameplay you will see does not reflect
what we will implement later.


5. Compiling NeL and SNOWBALLS
   ---------------------------

TODO: update text.
You will need a C++ compiler to properly compile and execute the NeL
framework. The program compiles reasonably under a Unix/GCC environment,
but it has been chiefly tested under a Linux environment.

TODO: update text.
The server has been compiled and executed on a Windows machine, but it
is highly recommended that you run it on a separate GNU/Linux machine. The
client has been compiled and executed on a GNU/Linux machine, but will
probably not work on other unix compatible systems (yet).

The client and server require an operating TCP/IP stack to communicate.

The data files for the client and server should be in the ./data child 
directories of the directory in which the executables are located.

See the INSTALL file for the requirements and installation instructions.


6. Running SNOWBALLS client
   ------------------------

It is highly recommended that you run the client on a PC with plenty of 
main memory (128Megs+) and a 3D card that supports T&L in hardware and 
has 32Mb of memory. Lesser configurations will probably give you very 
poor framerates.

TODO: rewrite completely, incorrect.
You just have to execute nel_launcher.exe (and never snowballs.exe directly).
The application will prompt you a login and password. If you enter
a user name that has never been used before on the server that you are
connected to then a new account will be created with the password that
you enter at the 'PASSWORD' prompt. You'll need to remeber this password
as you'll need each time you login in the future. Use only alphanumeric
value for login and password, don't use space and other strange characters.
WARNING: Password are not crypted so you should use 'dummy' password.

TODO: rewrite completely, incorrect.
After you have to select a shard if available, just click on the shard name.
It patch if necessary and automatically launch snowballs game, just wait.

TODO: rewrite completely, incorrect and extremely boring.
You're now a penguin on an artic snowfield. You have snowballs which you
can throw at other people. When you throw a snowball, you have a few
seconds during which you gather more snow before you can throw the next
one. If you hit someone, your score increases, and the snowed opponent 
becomes immune to further snowing (he flashes on the screen) for 5s. He
cannot retaliate while invulnerable.

Good luck.


7. The controls in SNOWBALLS
   -------------------------

Use the mouse to look around.
Use arrow keys to move forward, backward, strafe left and strafe right.

F3: switch on/off the wireframe mode
F4: clear the chat window
F5: switch on/off the chat text
F6: switch on/off the radar
F7: zoom out the radar
F8: zoom in the radar
F9: capture or uncapture the mouse
F10: switch betweeon online and offline
F11: reset player position
F12: take a screenshot
SHIFT-ESC: quit
Left Mouse Button: throw a snowball
Type text followed by ENTER to broadcast messages


8. Contacting us
   -------------

For comments and problems relating to SNOWBALLS or NeL 
you can go to the forums at http://www.opennel.org/jforum/forums/list.page
or use the issue tracker at http://www.opennel.org/jira/secure/Dashboard.jspa
